The Hadley Instititute
for the Blind and Visually Impaired presents iFocus,
tips on using the vision accessibility features on iOS.
In today's installment,
we'll look at setting accessibility shortcuts.
Hello, my name is Douglas Walker.
Today we are going to be taking a look
at a really simple way that we have
for quickly turning on and off our most frequently
used accessibility features,
and we will do this
by setting up our accessibility shortcut.
Now, once we set up our accessibility shortcut,
we can simply just tap our home button three times
to quickly toggle
our favorite accessibility features on and off,
and of course our home button
is the small round button here
at the bottom center of our screen.
Now, we will be setting our accessibility shortcut
to turn on and off voiceover today.
However, we could also set it
to toggle on and off
some of our other accessibility features as well,
such as maybe our magnifier,
or invert colors, or gray scale.
We could select zoom,
switch control, and even assisted touch,
but like we said,
we will be selecting voiceover today.
Now, we'll be using our iPhone for today's demonstration,
but no worries there because this same method will work
whether we're using our iPhone,
our iPad, or even our iPod Touch.
Now, some people also refer to our accessibility shortcut
as our triple click home feature,
and I'll tell you,
this can be really useful,
especially if we're maybe sharing our device
with someone that doesn't necessarily need
to use any of the accessibility features.
Now, our accessibility shortcut setting
is currently turned off,
so let's go ahead and take a quick look
at how to set up our accessibility shortcut.
Now, our accessibility shortcut setting
is under our accessibility settings
within our settings app,
and our settings app is right here on our desktop.
So, how about we just flick to our settings app here,
and so we'll just flick.
[Electronic Voice] Settings.
Double tap to open actions available.
All right,
and of course, here it is,
so we will just single finger double tap to activate it,
and we'll just single finger double tap
anywhere on our screen here.
(beeping)
[Electronic Voice] Settings.
Great, our settings app here has opened,
and we have been placed on our settings heading
here at the top center of our screen,
and of course just below the time here in our status bar.
Now, our accessibility settings are actually
within our general settings here,
so we will just right flick quickly to our general button,
and we'll just start right flicking here,
and we'll right flick.
[Electronic Voice] Settings.
Search field.
[Electronic Voice] Douglas Walker.
Apple ID, iCloud, iTunes store.
iCloud settings there.
[Electronic Voice] Airplane mode, on.
And we're right flicking.
[Electronic Voice] WiFi, off.
Until we hear that click.
[Electronic Voice] Bluetooth, off.
And we're looking for general.
[Electronic Voice] Cellular, airplane, notifications.
Notifications.
[Electronic Voice] Control center.
Control center
[Electronic Voice] Do not disturb.
One more.
[Electronic Voice] General button.
Okay, and here is our general button.
So we'll just go ahead an single finger double tap,
and it'll open up our general settings here.
So we'll just double tap anywhere here.
[Electronic Voice] Selected general settings.
Back button.
Great, our general settings have opened for us,
and we've been placed on our back button
here in the top left hand corner of our screen.
Now, remember, we're headed
to our accessibility settings here,
so we'll just right flick
until we find our accessibility button,
and so we'll just right flick here,
and we'll right flick.
[Electronic Voice] General, heading.
There's our heading.
[Electronic Voice] About button.
We're just right flicking here.
[Electronic Voice] Software update, spotlight search.
Just right flick.
[Electronic Voice] Home button, accessibility button.
All right, and here is our accessibility button,
so we'll just single finger double tap,
and we'll just open them right up here,
and we'll single finger double tap.
[Electronic Voice] Selected accessibility,
general, back button.
Okay, and we're getting there.
Our accessibility settings, of course,
have opened for us,
and we've been placed once again on our back button here
in the top left hand corner of our screen.
Okay, our accessibility shortcut button
is actually the very last button
in our accessibility list here.
Now, I tell ya,
we could just keep right flicking
through our accessibility list here.
However, a really great gesture for moving
through a really long list like this one
is our three finger flick up gesture,
but we first need to be within our list
before we can actually use it,
so how about we just right flick
to the first item in our list.
So we'll just right flick here until we get
to the first item.
So we'll right flick.
[Electronic Voice] Accessibility heading.
And that's our heading.
[Electronic Voice] Vision heading.
And that's our vision heading.
[Electronic Voice] Voiceover on button.
Okay, so here's our voiceover button,
and we heard, of course,
voiceover announce that it's currently turned on,
and that's really great for us, right?
Okay, so let's just now use
our three finger flick up gesture a few times
to quickly move through our accessibility list here.
So we'll just three finger flick up
until we get to the bottom of our screen here.
So we'll just flick up.
[Electronic Voice] Rows nine to 19 of 31.
And we'll flick up,
we've got 31 items here, apparently.
[Electronic Voice] Rows 18 to 27 of 31.
I think we need to do it one more time,
so we just flick up again with three fingers.
[Electronic Voice] Rows 25 to 31 of 31.
Okay, so here we are at the bottom of our list,
and remember, our accessibility shortcut
is the last item in our list here.
So we'll just touch near the bottom edge
of our screen and find it.
Hopefully find it here.
So we'll just touch.
[Electronic Voice] Accessibility shortcut, off button.
All right, and we got lucky,
here's out accessibility shortcut button here.
So we'll just single finger double tap to open it up,
and so we'll just single finger double tap.
[Electronic Voice] Selected accessibility shortcut.
Accessibility back button.
Finally we're here, right?
And once again, we hear that we've been placed
on our back button in the top left corner here.
Now what we have is a list here
of items in which we can choose to be toggled on and off
when we triple click our home button here,
and of course, voiceover is one
of the items here in our list.
So, how about we just right flick
until we find voiceover?
And so let's just right flick
until we get to voiceover here,
and we'll right flick.
[Electronic Voice] Accessibility shortcut heading.
There's our heading,
so we'll just right flick again.
[Electronic Voice] Triple click
the home button for heading.
Okay, and this is sort of a descriptor
of our heading for triple clicking here.
So we'll just right flick again.
[Electronic Voice] Voiceover.
Great, and here it is.
Voiceover is the very first item in our list here,
and now, if we want to select it,
you probably guessed that all we need to do
is just single finger double tap.
So we'll go ahead and just single finger double tap here.
[Electronic Voice] Selected voiceover.
All right, we heard voiceover announce
that voiceover is now selected.
Now, we could continue to right flick
through our list here,
and we could choose other items
that could serve as our accessibility shortcut as well,
like we said our magnifier,
or invert colors, or gray scale,
or even zoom, switch control,
and even assisted touch.
However, like we said,
today's all about voiceover.
So now that we have voiceover selected,
hey, why don't we give it a try?
We will just triple click our home button,
and we should be able to quickly turn off voiceover here.
So let's just press our home button
here quickly three times for us,
and we'll just tap.
[Electronic Voice] Voiceover off.
All right, and hey that was pretty fast.
Voiceover announced that it is now off,
and of course we can now interact
with our device using just standard touch gestures,
and then if we want to quickly turn on voiceover again,
well we can just triple click our home button,
and since my iPhone isn't much good for me
without voiceover on,
let's just go ahead and triple click our home button,
and we'll turn it back on here.
Okay, so we'll just quickly triple click here.
[Electronic Voice] Voiceover on.
Settings, accessibility, back button.
And there you go.
Voiceover, of course, is back on,
and we're good to go.
I tell ya, you know,
it really is fantastic that we have a really simple method
for quickly turning our accessibility features on and off.
Again, my name is Douglas Walker.
Take care, and I'll see you next time.
For more from the iFocus series,
including many other topics of interest
to individuals with vision loss,
visit the videos at Hadley page
on the Hadley Institute
for the Blind and Visaully Impaired website
at www.hadley.edu.